Add spring-preauthorize blog post (#2949)
okta/okta.github.io: _source/_posts/2019-06-19-spring-preauthorize.md

Another advantage that `@PreAuthorize` presents over `HttpSecurity` is the use of SpEL. Spring Expression Language allows you to make authorization decisions based on complex expressions that can access built-in authentication objects (such as `authentication` and `principal`), dependency-injected method parameters, and query parameters. In this tutorial you will mostly look at two expressions: `hasAuthority()` and `hasRole()`. [The Spring docs](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/site/docs/5.1.x/reference/htmlsingle/#el-pre-post-annotations) are again a great place to dig deeper.

Before we dive into the project, I want to also mention that Spring also provides a `@PostAuthorize` annotation. Not surprisingly, this is a method-level authorization annotation that is assessed **after** the method executes. Why would we want to do that? It allows the method to perform its own authorization checks based on whatever controller logic it likes before the annotation is assessed. The downside is that because the controller method is executed before the annotation is assessed, this could result is inefficiency, depending on the implementation.

## Dependencies

> The dependencies for this tutorial are pretty simple. You need: 1) Java 1.8+ installed, and 2) an Okta developer account. 

Reviewer: I would change this to Java 8+ instead of 1.8+

> If you do not have Java installed, go to [AdoptOpenJDK](https://adoptopenjdk.net/). On *nix systems, you can also use [SDKMAN](https://sdkman.io/).  

Reviewer: I think the asterisk needs to be escaped. I did NOT run it locally to confirm, but the italics on GitHub seem to indicate this.

Author: Renders either way with Jekyll, but i added the slash incase we port to something else in the future

```java
protected void configure(final HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {  
    http.antMatcher("/**")  
        .authorizeRequests()  
        .antMatchers("/").permitAll()  
        .antMatchers("/restricted").hasAuthority("SCOPE_custom") // <- LOOK AT ME!  
        .anyRequest().authenticated()  
        .and().oauth2Login();  
}
```

You can customize the scopes that the client app requests from the Okta authorization server by adding a `scopes` property to the `application.yml` file. For example, below, I have set the `application.yml` file to request only the `openid` scope, which is required for OAuth.

```yml
okta:  
  oauth2:  
	... 
    scopes: openid
    ...
``` 

If you ran this request on the `/user/oauthinfo` endpoint, you'd get something like this:

```
User Name: 00ab834zk7eJ18e8Y0h7  
User Authorities: [Admin, Everyone, ROLE_USER, SCOPE_openid]  
Client Name: Okta  
...
```

Notice that only one scope has been assigned to the user authorities.

Try adding a custom scope. Change `okta.oauth2.scopes` property in the `application.yml` file to match:

```yml
okta:  
  oauth2:  

> 	... 

Reviewer: Change tab to spaces.

---
layout: blog_post

> title: "Spring Method Security with Spring PreAuthorize"

Reviewer: This seems a little off. Something like "Method Security with Spring Security and PreAuthorize" might be better.

Author: Agreed, I was going to change that and the got stuck in meetings. I like your suggestion

author: moksamedia
description: "In this tutorial, you'll secure a Spring Boot app with Spring Security and the PreAuthorize annotation."
tags: [java, spring, spring boot, spring security, security]
tweets:

> - "Method based security with @SpringSecurity."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Learn how to use method-based security with @SpringSecurity in this tutorial."
```

- "Confused on when to use HttpSecurity vs PreAuthorize with @SpringSecurity, check out this post!"

> - "Andrew explains how to secure a SpringBoot app with a couple lines of code."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Andrew explains how to secure a @springboot app with a couple of lines of code."
```

Another advantage that `@PreAuthorize` presents over `HttpSecurity` is the use of SpEL. Spring Expression Language allows you to make authorization decisions based on complex expressions that can access built-in authentication objects (such as `authentication` and `principal`), dependency-injected method parameters, and query parameters. In this tutorial you will mostly look at two expressions: `hasAuthority()` and `hasRole()`. [The Spring docs](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/site/docs/5.1.x/reference/htmlsingle/#el-pre-post-annotations) are again a great place to dig deeper.

Before we dive into the project, I want to also mention that Spring also provides a `@PostAuthorize` annotation. Not surprisingly, this is a method-level authorization annotation that is assessed **after** the method executes. Why would we want to do that? It allows the method to perform its own authorization checks based on whatever controller logic it likes before the annotation is assessed. The downside is that because the controller method is executed before the annotation is assessed, this could result is inefficiency, depending on the implementation.

## Dependencies

> The dependencies for this tutorial are pretty simple. You need: 1.) Java 1.8+ installed, and 2.) an Okta developer account. 

Reviewer: I'd remove the periods, so it's just 1) and 2)

Author: ha, that is how Android had it

> If you do not have Java installed, go to [the Java homepage on the Oracle website](https://www.java.com/en/download/). On a Mac, you can also use [SDKMAN](https://sdkman.io/).  

Reviewer: I wouldn't recommend downloading Java from Oracle. [AdoptOpenJDK](https://adoptopenjdk.net/) seems better. Also, SDKMAN runs on any UNIX based platforms: Mac OSX, Linux, Cygwin, Solaris and FreeBSD.

If you do not already have a free Okta developer account, go to [our website and sign up](https://developer.okta.com/signup/).

## Start a Sample Project Using Spring Initializr

> To get the project started, you're going to use the [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/). However, while it's worth taking a gander at the page, you don't even have to bother going there to create the project. You're going to use the REST API and `curl`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the project started, you can use the [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/). However, while it's worth taking a gander at the page, you don't even have to bother going there to create the project. You can use the REST API and `curl`. 
```

Open a terminal and `cd` to wherever you want the project file .zip to end up. Run the command below, which will download the zipped Spring Boot project. 

```bash
curl https://start.spring.io/starter.zip \
  -d dependencies=web,security \
  -d type=gradle-project \
  -d bootVersion=2.1.5.RELEASE \
  -d groupId=com.okta.preauthorize \
  -d artifactId=application \
  -o PreAuthorizeProject.zip
unzip PreAuthorizeProject.zip
```

There isn't much to the project to begin with except the `build.gradle` file and the `DemoApplication.java` class file. However, the whole project structure is there already set up for you. 

The `build.gradle` file also has the two Spring dependencies you need for this example:

```groovy
dependencies {
  implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-security'
  implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-web'
}
``` 

## Add a WebController

The sample app in its current state doesn't do much. You need to add a controller to define some endpoints and responses.

> Add a new file `src/main/java/com/okta/preauthorize/Application/WebController.java`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a new file `src/main/java/com/okta/preauthorize/application/WebController.java`:
```

```java
package com.okta.preauthorize.application;  
  
import org.springframework.stereotype.Controller;  
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMapping;  
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.ResponseBody;  
  
@Controller  
public class WebController {  
  
    @RequestMapping("/")  
    @ResponseBody  
    public String home() {  
        return "Welcome home!";  
    }  
  
    @RequestMapping("/restricted")  
    @ResponseBody  
    public String restricted() {  
        return "You found the secret lair!";  
    }
}
```

This controller defines two endpoints: `/` and `/restricted`. You will be adding method-level security to the `/restricted` endpoint in a bit. Right now, however, no security has been configured.

Go ahead and run the application. From the root project directory, run:

```bash
./gradlew bootRun
```

> Once Spring Boot has finished launching, navigate to: `http://localhost:8080`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once Spring Boot has finished launching, navigate to `http://localhost:8080`.
```

You'll notice a login form appears. Whoa! Where did that come from?!

> That form automatically generated by Spring Boot. Take a look at the Spring class `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter` and the method [`configure(HttpSecurity http)`](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-security/blob/5.1.5.RELEASE/config/src/main/java/org/springframework/security/config/annotation/web/configuration/WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter.java#L355-L360). This is where the default authentication settings are configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The form is automatically generated by Spring Boot. Take a look at the Spring class `WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter` and the method [`configure(HttpSecurity http)`](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-security/blob/5.1.5.RELEASE/config/src/main/java/org/springframework/security/config/annotation/web/configuration/WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter.java#L355-L360). This is where the default authentication settings are configured.
```

## Enable Method-level Security for Spring @PreAuthorize

What you want to do now is configure Spring Boot to allow requests on the home endpoint while restricting requests to the `/restricted` endpoint.

You might initially think you could add `@PreAuthorize("permitAll()")` to the home endpoint and this would allow all requests. However, if you try it, you'll discover that it does nothing. That's because the default `HttpBuilder` implementation is still active, and because it's assessed during the web request filter chain, it takes precedence. **You also have to explicitly enable the method-level security annotations, otherwise, they're ignored.**

Add the following `SecurityConfig` class, that will achieve both of the above goals.

> `src/main/java/com/okta/preauthorize/Application/SecurityConfig.java`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`src/main/java/com/okta/preauthorize/application/SecurityConfig.java`
```

```java
package com.okta.preauthorize.application;  
  
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Configuration;  
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.method.configuration.EnableGlobalMethodSecurity;  
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.web.builders.HttpSecurity;  
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.web.configuration.WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter;  
  
@Configuration  
@EnableGlobalMethodSecurity(prePostEnabled = true)  
public class SecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {  
    protected void configure(final HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {}  
}
```

> The `@EnableGlobalMethodSecurity(prePostEnabled = true)` annotation is what enables our `@PreAuthorize` annotation. This can be added to any class with the `@Configuration` annotation. I won't go into any depth about them here, but you can also enable `@Secured`, an older Spring Security annotation, and JSR-250 annotations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@EnableGlobalMethodSecurity(prePostEnabled = true)` annotation is what enables the `@PreAuthorize` annotation. This can be added to any class with the `@Configuration` annotation. I won't go into any depth about them here, but you can also enable `@Secured`, an older Spring Security annotation, and JSR-250 annotations.
```

In the `WebController` class, add the `@PreAuthorize` annotation to the `/restricted` endpoint, like this:

```java
@PreAuthorize("isAuthenticated()")  
@RequestMapping("/restricted")  
@ResponseBody  
public String restricted() {  
    return "You found the secret lair!";  
}
```

Run the app (`./gradlew bootRun`).

This time you will be able to navigate to the home page but going to the `/restricted` endpoint gives you an (admittedly ugly) whitelabel error page.

{% img blog/spring-preauthorize/whitelabel-403.png alt:"Ugly Whitelabel Error" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

In a production app, you'd need to override this to return a better, custom error page or otherwise handle the error (if you want to create a custom error page, take a look at [the Spring docs on the subject](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.1.x/reference/html/boot-features-developing-web-applications.html#boot-features-error-handling-custom-error-pages)). But you can see that the app is returning a **403 / Unauthorized**, which is what you want.

> Great. Now, instead, change your WebController class to match the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Great. Now, instead, change your `WebController` class to match the following:
```

@PreAuthorize("isAuthenticated()")    
public class WebController {  
  
    @PreAuthorize("permitAll()")  
    @RequestMapping("/")  
    @ResponseBody  
    public String home() {  
        return "Welcome home!";  
    }  

    @RequestMapping("/restricted")  
    @ResponseBody  
    public String restricted() {  
        return "You found the secret lair!";  
    }  
      
}
```

Here you've used the `@PreAuthorize` annotation to restrict the entire controller class to authenticated users and to explicitly allow all requests (regardless of authentication status) to the home endpoint.

I know we've been calling it "method-level" security, but, in fact, these `@PreAuthorize` annotation can also be added to controller classes to set a default for the entire class. This is also where the `@PreAuthorize("permitAll()")` comes in handy because it can override the class-level annotation.

If you run the app (`./gradlew bootRun`) and try the endpoints, you'll find that the home endpoint is open but the `/restricted` endpoint is closed.

Note that if you added a second, separate web controller, all of its methods would still by-default be open and not require authentication.

> A third option (my favorite on most small to medium-sized apps) is to use `HttpBuilder` to require authentication for all requests by default and to explicitly allow any public endpoints. This allows me to use `@PreAuthorize` to refine access control for specific methods based on users or roles or groups but makes it clear that all paths **unless explicitly allowed** will have some basic security applied. It also means that public paths are defined in a central place. Again this works for a certain type of project, but may not be the best structure for all projects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A third option (my favorite on most small to medium-sized apps) is to use `HttpBuilder` to require authentication for all requests by default and to explicitly allow any public endpoints. This allows you to use `@PreAuthorize` to refine access control for specific methods based on users or roles or groups but makes it clear that all paths **unless explicitly allowed** will have some basic security applied. It also means that public paths are defined in a central place. Again this works for a certain type of project, but may not be the best structure for all projects. 
```

Reviewer: I changed me to you here, but the diff doesn't seem to be showing it.

To implement this, change the `WebController` class to this (removing all the `@PreAuthorize` annotations):

```java
@Controller  
public class WebController {  
  
    @RequestMapping("/")  
    @ResponseBody  
    public String home() {  
        return "Welcome home!";  
    }  
  
    @RequestMapping("/restricted")  
    @ResponseBody  
    public String restricted() {  
        return "You found the secret lair!";  
    }  
  
}
```

And change the `WebSecurity` class to this:

```java
@Configuration  
@EnableGlobalMethodSecurity(prePostEnabled = true)  
public class SecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {  
    protected void configure(final HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {  
        http.antMatcher("/**")  
            .authorizeRequests()  
            .antMatchers("/").permitAll()  
            .anyRequest().authenticated()
            .and().formLogin();  
    }  
}
```

What you've done is use `SecurityConfig` class to explicitly permit all requests on the home endpoint while requiring authentication on all other endpoints. This sets a blanket minimum authentication requirement for your app. You also re-enabled form-based authentication.

Try it! 

> Run the app using: `./gradlew bootRun`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the app using: `./gradlew bootRun`.
```

> Navigate to the home endpoint, which is open: `http://localhost:8080`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the home endpoint, which is open: `http://localhost:8080`.
```

And the restricted endpoint, which requires authentication: `http://localhost:8080/restricted`.

When Spring's login form appears, don't forget you can use the default credentials. User is "user", and the password is found in the console output (look for `Using generated security password:`).

## Advance to OAuth 2.0 Login

> Form-based authentication feels pretty creaky and old these days. More and more, users expect to be able to log in using third party sites, and due to increased security threats, there's less motivation to manage user credentials on your own server. Okta is a software-as-service identity and access management company that provides a whole host of services. In this tutorial, you're going to use them to quickly implement a login form using OAuth 2.0 and OIDC (OpenID Connect). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Form-based authentication feels pretty creaky and old these days. More and more, users expect to be able to log in using third-party sites, and due to increased security threats, there's less motivation to manage user credentials on your own server. Okta is a software-as-service identity and access management company that provides a whole host of services. In this section, you're going to use them to quickly implement a login form using OAuth 2.0 and OIDC (OpenID Connect). 
```

Very, very briefly: OAuth 2.0 is an industry-standard authorization protocol and OIDC is another open standard on top of OAuth that adds an identity layer (authentication). Together they provide a structured way for programs to manage authentication and authorization and to communicate across networks and the internet. Neither OAuth nor OIDC, however, provide an implementation. They are just specs or protocols. That's where Okta comes in. Okta has an implementation of the OAuth 2.0 and OIDC specs that allows for programs to use their services to quickly provide login, registration, and single sign-on (or social login) services. In this tutorial, you're just going to be implementing a login function, but at the end of the tutorial, you can find links to other resources to show you how to implement social login and registration.

> First, sign up for a free Okta Developer account: [https://developer.okta.com/](https://developer.okta.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, sign up for a free Okta Developer account: [https://developer.okta.com/signup/](https://developer.okta.com/signup/).
```

If this is the first time you've logged in or just registered, you may need to click the **Admin** button to get to the developer console.

Next, you need to configure an OIDC application.

From your Okta developer dashboard, in the top menu, click on **Applications**.

{% img blog/spring-preauthorize/add-app.png alt:"Okta Dashboard" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Click green **Add Application** button
Click **Web** application type, and **Next**
Give the app a Name. Any name.
Set **Login Redirect URIs** to `http://localhost:8080/login/oauth2/code/okta`

> Click **Done**.

Reviewer: I believe ^^ is a list that's missing its bullet points.

{% img blog/spring-preauthorize/new-oidc-app.png alt:"OIDC Application" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

Take note of the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** at the bottom of the page. You'll need these in the next section.

And that's it on the Okta side. 

Now you need to configure Spring Boot to use Okta as an OAuth 2.0 provider.

## Configure Your Spring Boot App For OAuth 2.0

> Making Spring Boot work with OAuth 2.0 and Okta is remarkably easy. The first step is to add the Okta Spring Boot Starter dependency. It's totally possible to use Okta OAuth 2.0 / OIDC without using their starter; however, the starter simplifies the configuration. It also handles extracting the groups claim from the JSON Web Token and turning it into a Spring Security authority (which will look at in a bit). Take a look at the [Okta Spring Boot Starter GitHub page](https://github.com/okta/okta-spring-boot) for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Making Spring Boot work with OAuth 2.0 and Okta is remarkably easy. The first step is to add the Okta Spring Boot Starter dependency. It's totally possible to use Okta OAuth 2.0 / OIDC without using our starter; however, the starter simplifies the configuration. It also handles extracting the groups claim from the JSON Web Token and turning it into a Spring Security authority (which will look at in a bit). Take a look at the [Okta Spring Boot Starter GitHub page](https://github.com/okta/okta-spring-boot) for more info.
```

Update the dependencies section of your `build.gradle` file:

```groovy
dependencies {  
  implementation 'com.okta.spring:okta-spring-boot-starter:1.2.1'  // <-- ADDED
  implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-security'  
  implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-web'  
  testImplementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-test'  
  testImplementation 'org.springframework.security:spring-security-test'  
}
```

In the `src/main/resources` directory there is an `application.properties` file. Rename it to `application.yml`. Add the following content:

```yaml
okta:
  oauth2:  
    issuer: https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default  
    client-id: {yourClientId}
    client-secret: {yourClientSecret}
```

> Don't forget to update the **client-id**, **client-secret**, and **issuer** values to match the values from your Okta developer account and OIDC app. Your Okta domainURL will look something like this: `https://dev-123456.okta.com`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't forget to update the **client-id**, **client-secret**, and **issuer** values to match the values from your Okta developer account and OIDC app. Your Okta issuer should look something like `https://dev-123456.okta.com/oauth2/default`.
```

public class SecurityConfig extends WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter {  
    protected void configure(final HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {  
        http.antMatcher("/**")  
            .authorizeRequests()  
            .antMatchers("/").permitAll()  
            .anyRequest().authenticated()  
            .and().oauth2Login();  // <-- THIS WAS CHANGED
    }  
}
```

Notice that all you really changed here was `formLogin()` to `oauth2Login()`.

Run the app: `./gradlew bootRun` (you may either need to sign out of the Okta developer dashboard or use an incognito window to see the login screen).

The `/` endpoint is still open, but when you go to the restricted endpoint: `http://localhost:8080/restricted`.

You'll see the Okta login screen.

{% img blog/spring-preauthorize/okta-login.png alt:"Okta Login Screen" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

Log in with your Okta credentials and you're authenticated!

## Inspect the OAuth 2.0 User Attributes

When developing OAuth applications, I have found it helpful to be able to inspect the information Spring Boot has about the client and the authenticated user. To this end, add a new controller named `UserInfoController.java`.

> `src/main/java/com/okta/preauthorize/Application/UserInfoController.java`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`src/main/java/com/okta/preauthorize/application/UserInfoController.java`
```

import org.springframework.security.oauth2.client.OAuth2AuthorizedClient;  
import org.springframework.security.oauth2.client.annotation.RegisteredOAuth2AuthorizedClient;  
import org.springframework.security.oauth2.core.user.OAuth2User;  
import org.springframework.stereotype.Controller;  
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMapping;  
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.ResponseBody;  
  
import java.util.Map;  
  
@RequestMapping("/user")  
@Controller  
public class UserInfoController {  
      
    @RequestMapping("/oauthinfo")  
    @ResponseBody  
    public String oauthUserInfo(@RegisteredOAuth2AuthorizedClient OAuth2AuthorizedClient authorizedClient,  
                              @AuthenticationPrincipal OAuth2User oauth2User) {  
        return  
            "User Name: " + oauth2User.getName() + "<br/>" +  
            "User Authorities: " + oauth2User.getAuthorities() + "<br/>" +  
            "Client Name: " + authorizedClient.getClientRegistration().getClientName() + "<br/>" +  
            this.prettyPrintAttributes(oauth2User.getAttributes());  
    }  
  
    private String prettyPrintAttributes(Map<String, Object> attributes) {  

>         String acc = "User Attributes: <br/><div style=padding-left:20px;>";  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        String acc = "User Attributes: <br/><div style='padding-left:20px'>";  
```

Great! So now Okta will map all of its groups to a `groups` claim on the access token and the ID token.

What happens to this groups claim on the Spring side is not necessarily obvious nor automatic. One of the benefits of the Spring Boot starter is that it automatically extracts the groups claim from the JWT and maps it to a Spring authority. Otherwise you would need to implement your own `GrantedAuthoritiesExtractor`. 

FYI: the name of the groups claim can be configured using the `okta.oauth2.groupsClaim` field in the `application.yml` file. It defaults to `groups`.

## Inspect The User Attributes With Groups

Run the app: `./gradlew bootRun`. 

Navigate to `http://localhost:8080/user/oauthinfo`.

You'll see something like this (a bunch of redundant lines omitted for clarity):

```
User Name: 00ab834zk7eJ18e8Y0h7  
User Authorities: [Everyone, ROLE_USER, SCOPE_email, SCOPE_openid, SCOPE_profile]
Client Name: Okta  
User Attributes:  
  ...
  groups: ["Everyone"]
  ...
```

Notice a new **groups** user attribute (the mapped groups claim). The value, `Everyone`, is the default group mapped to, well, everyone. This gets mapped to the user authority `Everyone`. 

> That's the basic idea. It'll get a little more exciting in the next step when we add an Admin group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's the basic idea. It'll get a little more exciting in the next step when you add an Admin group.
```

@PreAuthorize("hasAuthority('Admin')")  
@RequestMapping("/restricted")  
@ResponseBody  
public String restricted() {  
    return "You found the secret lair!";  
}
```

This tells Spring to check that the authenticated user has the `Admin` authority, and if not, deny the request.

Run the app: `./gradlew bootRun`. 

Navigate to `http://localhost:8080/restricted`.

You'll get a **403 / Unauthorized** whitepage error.

## Add Your User To the Admin Group

Now you need to add your Okta user to the Admin group. From the top menu, select **Users** and click **Groups**. Click on the **Admin** group. Click **Add Members**. Search for your user in the popup and click **Add**.

## Test the Admin Group Membership

Done! Let's see what that did. Once, again, run the Spring Boot app: `./gradlew bootRun`. 

Navigate to `http://localhost/user/oauthinfo`.

This time you'll see the `Admin` group and authority. (You may need a new browser session to see the change, or use incognito.)

```
User Name: 00ab834zk7eJ18e8Y0h7  
User Authorities: [Admin, Everyone, ROLE_USER, SCOPE_email, SCOPE_openid, SCOPE_profile]
Client Name: Okta  
User Attributes:  
  ...
  groups: ["Everyone", "Admin"]
  ...
```

> And if you navigate to http://localhost:8080/restricted, you'll be allowed access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And if you navigate to `http://localhost:8080/restricted`, you'll be allowed access.
```

## Compare Spring Security Roles and Authorities

One thing that confused me initially was `hasRole()` versus `hasAuthority()`. 

Roles in Spring are authorities that have the `ROLE_` prefix (like all things in Spring, the prefix is configurable). One way to think about this is that roles are intended for large sets of permissions while authorities can be used for finer-grained control. However, that's just a possible use. The actual implementation is up to the developer. In this tutorial, you're actually using authorities to map to authorization groups.

The important point to remember is that if you want to user `hasRole()`, you need the authority name in the claim to start with `ROLE_`. For example, if you added a `ROLE_ADMIN` group, and added your user to it, and the group to the OIDC app, you could use `hasRole('ADMIN')`. 

## Authorization Based On OAuth 2.0 Scopes with Spring PreAuthorize

You can also use the `@PreAuthorize` annotation to limit access based on OAuth scopes. From [

> the OAuth 2.0 docs page](https://oauth.net/2/scope/): 

Reviewer: Should this line be combined with the one above it?

> the OAuth 2.0 docs page](https://oauth.net/2/scope/): 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the OAuth 2.0 scopes documentation](https://oauth.net/2/scope/): 
```

> >Scope is a mechanism in OAuth 2.0 to limit an application's access to a user's account. An application can request one or more scopes, this information is then presented to the user in the consent screen, and the access token issued to the application will be limited to the scopes granted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Scope is a mechanism in OAuth 2.0 to limit an application's access to a user's account. An application can request one or more scopes, this information is then presented to the user in the consent screen, and the access token issued to the application will be limited to the scopes granted.
```

```yml
okta:  
  oauth2:  
	... 
    scopes: openid
    ...
``` 

If you ran this request on the `/user/oauthinfo` endpoint, you'd get something like this:

```
User Name: 00ab834zk7eJ18e8Y0h7  
User Authorities: [Admin, Everyone, ROLE_USER, SCOPE_openid]  
Client Name: Okta  
...
```

Notice that only one scope has been assigned to the user authorities.

Try adding a custom scope. Change `okta.oauth2.scopes` property in the `application.yml` file to match:

```yml
okta:  
  oauth2:  
	... 
    scopes: openid email profile custom
    ...
```

Before you run the app and try this out, you need to add the custom scope to the Okta authorization server (if you run it now you'll get an error).

Open your Okta developer dashboard.

From the top menu, go to **API** and select **Authorization Servers**.

Select the **default** authorization server.

Click on the **Scopes** tab.

{% img blog/spring-preauthorize/add-scope.png alt:"Add New Scope" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Click the **Add Scope** button.
 - **Name**: `custom`
 -  **Description**: `Custom test scope`
 
 Click **Create**.

> You just added a custom scope (cunningly named `custom`) to the default Okta authorization server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You just added a custom scope (cunningly named `custom`) to your default Okta authorization server.
```

One last time, run the Spring Boot app: `./gradlew bootRun`.

Navigate to `http://localhost:8080/user/oauthinfo`.

```
User Name: 00ab834zk7eJ18e8Y0h7  
User Authorities: [Admin, Everyone, ROLE_USER, SCOPE_custom, SCOPE_email, SCOPE_openid, SCOPE_profile]  
Client Name: Okta  
...
```

Success! You should see the new `SCOPE_custom` in the user authorities.

## Spring PreAuthorize, HttpSecurity, and Security in Spring Boot

You covered a ton of ground! You got a good look at Spring method-level security using `@PreAuthorize` and saw how it relates to `HttpSecurity`. You used some basic SpEL (Spring Expression Language) statements to configure authorization. You reviewed the difference between authorization and authentication. You configured Spring Boot to use Okta as an OAuth 2.0 / OIDC single sign-on provider and added a groups claim to the authentication server and the client app. You even a new **Admin** group and saw how to use the groups claim, mapped to a Spring authority, to restrict access.  Finally, you took a look at how OAuth 2.0 scopes can be used to define authorization schemes and implement them in the app.

Next stop: rocket science!

> If you'd like to check out this complete project, you can [find the repo on Github](https://github.com/oktadeveloper/okta-spring-preauthorize-example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to check out this complete project, you can [find the repo on GithHub](https://github.com/oktadeveloper/okta-spring-preauthorize-example).
```

Reviewer: This repo's README needs merchandising.

If you'd like to learn more about Spring Boot, Spring Security, or secure user management, check out any of these great tutorials:

-   [Get Started with Spring Boot, OAuth 2.0, and Okta](/blog/2017/03/21/spring-boot-oauth)
-   [Add Single Sign-On to Your Spring Boot Web App in 15 Minutes](/blog/2017/11/20/add-sso-spring-boot-15-min)
-   [Secure Your Spring Boot Application with Multi-Factor Authentication](/blog/2018/06/12/mfa-in-spring-boot)
-   [Build a Secure API with Spring Boot and GraphQL](/blog/2018/08/16/secure-api-spring-boot-graphql)

If you want to dive deeper, take a look at the [Okta Spring Boot Starter GitHub Project](https://github.com/okta/okta-spring-boot).

> If you have any questions about this post, please add a comment below. For more awesome content, follow  [@oktadev](https://twitter.com/oktadev)  on Twitter, like us  [on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/oktadevelopers/), or subscribe to  [our YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC5AMiWqFVFxF1q9Ya1FuZ_Q).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have any questions about this post, please add a comment below. For more awesome content, follow  [@oktadev](https://twitter.com/oktadev) on Twitter, like us [on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/oktadevelopers/), or subscribe to [our YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/oktadev).
```
